# Pioneer Academics Research Project

The COVID-19 crisis has drastically impacted the world we know. In the presence of such a contagious contact disease, it is important to see the world not as a network of individuals, but as a network of families, something that the foundation of our physical society is built on. The proximal relationships that people have with their family members can create unpredictability when evaluating the topics of spread and containment. Hence, it is important to study networks with family clusters to better understand the behavior of an epidemic. 

This paper will explore a modified SIR epidemiologic model for COVID-19 through the use of simulations. The research design consists of three main goals: 1. To analyze the properties of a uniquely structured family network and its effect on overall spread, 2. To see how the number of presymptomatic and symptomatic infections change when implementing a behavioral policy of self-isolation and 3. To explore the different testing procedures and their impact on a model that implements the mentioned familial self-isolation policy. 

From simulation results, we come to several conclusions regarding these focuses. First, we observe the tendency for infection to rapidly spread amongst the families in a network, leading to an overall faster infection rate for nodes in the family network compared to an analogous random network. Next, we see that when incorporating policies of self-isolation, the number of symptomatic infections decrease, but the number of presymptomatic infections stays the same regardless of the decreased overall spread. Lastly, we can conclude that out of the three main testing policies, contact tracing within families is the most effective. Symptomatic testing fails to control presymptomatic infections so we see a limit to how much this policy can actually create containment. Mass testing, on the other hand,seems to be better in reducing the overall spread but requires a large number of tests to be effective. Overall, simulation results show that factors such as presymptomatic infections, spread within families and overall transmission rapidity are connected in a unique way that can likely impact the overall spread of an epidemic simulation.

Full paper: https://tinyurl.com/pioneer103
